What is sampling? Explain the main purpose of sampling. Describe briefly stratified sampling.
Write short notes on any two:
Random variable and probability distribution
Five number summary
Sampling error.
Differentiate between primary data and secondary data. What are the sources of secondary data?
assumption of simple linear gression
What do you understand by sampling? Differentiate between a simple random variable and stratified random sampling.
Write notes on any two:
Nominal and ordinal scale
Kurtosis
Five number summary
What do your mean by measurement scale? Describe the different types of measurement scales used in statistics.
What is sampling? Discuss various probability sampling techniques with merits and demerits.
Define primary data and secondary data and explain the difference between them.
What do you mean by sampling? Explain non probability sampling with merits and demerits.

nd probn
statistics:
science of collecting, organizing,analyzing,interpreting numerical
data to make informed descision. used for validating models, optimizing 
algorithms,extracting meaningful insights from large data stes

normal distribution:
continuous probability distriubtion syummetricc around mean froming bell curve
- curve is bell shaped
- symmetric around mean 
- unimodal, only one mode
- measure of central tendency are equal mean=mode=median
- no part of curve lies below x axis as y=f(x) is never -ve
- tails of curve is asymptotic, approach but never touch x axis
- area under curve represents probablity and total area above x axis is 1

mean:
highly affected by extreme values
biased if skewed: +ve - mode <md<mean

meadian:
value that divides data set into 2 euqal half
considesr rank of observation, not value
not affected by skewness

mode:
value that repreats amx times
least affected by skewnness
not affected by extreme values
affected by sampling

SD:
dispersion of data relative to its mean
absolute, same unit as data
takes into account every observation
least affected by sampling
not affected by extreme observations as more weigh tto extreme than closer to mean
spread of data(how representative is mean)
comparare consistency
compare Zscore

CV:
scatterness of data relaticve to mean
relative
higher CV means higher spread from mean
used when units are different

correaltion:
statistical method to measure strength and direction of linear 
rekationshipo between 2 vairables
-1<r<1
r<0; positive relation, r=0; no ,r<0 -ve
assumptions:
linearity- relationship between 2 varailbes is linear
normality- both variables are approximately normally distributed
homoscedasticity- spread of data points around regression line is
consistnt across all levels of independen variable
scale- both variables should be continuous and measured on intervfal sclae
no outliers- data set should be free from significant outliers as they
can distort correlation

regerssion:
statistical method to determine eqn if line that best predicts
the dependent variable(response) based on independent(predicotr)
fcouses on causation/dependecny not just association

dispersion:
degree to which numerical data tends to spread about an average value
absolute - absolute magnitude of average of deviatoin in indiviual values, same units
range,inter fractile/quartile/percentril range,mean deviation,sd,varance
relative- ratio os a masure of absolute vairation to appropraite average
for comparing variability of 2/more data sets
c of range,ifr,mean devation,variation

skewness:
measure of asymmetry of probability distribution about its mean

kurtosis:
measure of flatness of peakness of probability distribution

partition value:
statistical measure that diveide a data set into specific prropportion
percentile: divide into 100 equal parts
decile: 10 parts
quartile: 4 parts

mutually exclusive:
cant occur together simlutaneuosly
tossing coin, result of exam
P(A n B)=0
P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B)
	= P(A) + P(B) - P(A n B) ; non

independent events:
if occurence of one event doesnt affect outcome of other
tossing coin,
P(A and B)=P(A)xP(B)
	= P(A)xP(B/A) ; non
	= P(B)xP(A/B) 

bayes theorem:
extension of condtional probability that revises prior estimates of
probability on the basis of additional inforation

binomial distribution:
discrete probability distribution used when there are 2 possible outcomes
in each trial
- n identical trials fixed in advance
- each trial has only 2 possible outcomes, success failure
- trials are independent of each other
- probablilty of succus is constant

posson distribution:
discrete probability distributoin to model no. of random occurence of
some event in spaecified unit of time
- theoretically infinte no. of occurence of event is possible in interval
- events occur independently
- average no. of occurence in specified time is known
- probability of event occuring is proportional to length of time
- probability of succuess in extremely small interval is vitrtually 0




